Israel says it carried out overnight
attacks on hollah Targets in Lebanon
striking weapons cashes and quote
terrorist infrastructure this comes just
hours after 12 people were killed in a
rocket attack on a sports field in the
Israel occupied goolan Heights Israel's
defense minister yav galand has visited
the site of that attack in the Arab town
of Maj Shams the military says those
killed were children and teenagers
Israel is blaming the Hezbollah militant
Group which is backed by Iran and based
in Lebanon the group has denied being
involved the United Nations is calling
for maximum restraint on the border
between lebanan and Israel the scene of
repeated
hostilities this is the moment the
missile strikes a football pitch in the
town of mashal Shams where young players
were enjoying a
match distraught locals rush to
help but the deaths of a dozen
youngsters prompt shocked calls for
retaliatory
action Israel needs to respond within
hours they need to give an ultimatum
either pull back or Israel wipes out
Southern Lebanon and anyone who is
threatening the existence of the state
of
Israel our people cannot just be
sacrificed there cannot be casualties
without any response and there needs to
be
deterrence this is the deadlist attack
along Israel's northern border since
fighting between Israel and the Lebanese
militant group Hezbollah escalated at
the start of the Gaza War last
October but despite regular crossborder
hostilities Hezbollah denies targeting
the football pitch in the Goen High
Israel's prime minister cut short a
visit to the
US I've been holding continuous security
consultations and I've decided to bring
forward my return to Israel I will
convene the security cabinet as soon as
I arrive the state of Israel will not
stay
silent the UN has called for maximum
restraint on the border between Israel
and Lebanon but this slate latest attack
makes an already 10 standoff more
dangerous joining me now is DW
correspondent Tanya kma in Jerusalem
hello Tanya what more do we know at this
point well some of the victims have now
been named here in the Israeli media
these are all uh younger children
teenagers between the ages of 10 and 20
at least 12 were killed in this strike
uh on Saturday night and many more we
understand are also seriously injured uh
still uh in hospital uh the sirens uh
from what we understand from
eyewitnesses uh is that the sirens went
off in this Jewish community on the
Israeli occupied uh golen Heights uh
very shortly and then the impact Was
Heard shortly uh after so there was not
much time uh for people to uh run uh for
cover and the Israeli Army is still also
looking into it why this missile was not
intercepted now uh Hezbollah has denied
responsibility but Israel has dismissed
that and in a first retaliation uh the
Army said this morning in a statement
that they have retaliated and targeted
uh overnight number of what they
describe as Hezbollah targets such as
combat infrastructure deep inside
Lebanon and also in southern Lebanon
right so what's interesting here is some
sort of blame game going on also
um talking about the initial attack
Israel says the attack was conducted by
hesah but Hezbollah denies this what
evidence is there so
[Applause]
far well that's right I mean Israel
dismisses hezbollah's claims uh that uh
they didn't uh fire this rocket now the
military has said the chief of staff
that it was a fak missile with a 50 kg
Warhead that was launched uh towards the
uh occupied Golden Heights and that is
part of the Arsenal of hollah they also
trace the trajectory of this missile now
the question is now what follows uh
after that and this has different layers
of course this was an attack on the Jews
Community there in uh the north uh and
uh basically there also Drews in Lebanon
also Drews in Syria th this could have
repercussions uh uh also on Hezbollah
domestically but also of course we've
seen in the past since uh the war on
Gaza started since October 7 uh these
crossb attacks with tensions going up
and down and uh most of the officials
here have said or analyst there would be
one of such incident where many
civilians would be killed that could tip
uh this balance balance uh and um there
could be potential for broader conflict
right tensions are indeed running High
um tell us more about how officials
inside Israel are reacting to this
well we've heard a lot of condemnation
obviously um you know from all from
different political leaders uh prime
minister Benyamin Netanyahu is on his
way back from Washington he said quote
that Hezbollah will pay a heavy price
for this attack uh one that has it has
not been paid so far that's what he said
he has convened the security cabinet as
soon as he will be landing uh this is
necessary if it pertains to a decision
on a potential escalation on the war
there needs to be a vote so we will know
more about that later but this is
certainly a very dangerous situation
right now here in the region right de
correspondent Tanya kma in Jerusalem
thank you